# sticky-note-teaching

This repository hosts a collection of tips and techniques for teaching
with sticky notes.  To contribute, please submit a pull request that
adds an entry to this page (`README.md`) or a file an issue for
discussion that proposes a change.  Comments on pull requests and
issues are also very welcome - please see `CONTRIBUTING.md` for more
details.

Please note that by doing contributing, you are agreeing that we may
incorporate your work in either original or edited form and release
them under the same license as the rest of this material.  Please also
note that we require everyone involved in this project to abide by our
code of conduct (found in `CONDUCT.md`).

<div align="center">
  <a href="http://www.spoon-tamago.com/2018/01/12/omoshiro-block/"><img width="200px" src="./omoshiro-block-3.jpg" alt="Image from http://www.spoon-tamago.com/2018/01/12/omoshiro-block/" /></a>
</div>

## Status Flags

Give each learner two sticky notes of different colours, e.g., red and
green. If someone has completed an exercise and wants it checked, they
put the green sticky note on their laptop; if they run into a problem
and need help, the put up the red one. This is better than having
people raise their hands because:

*   it's more discreet (which means they're more likely to actually do
    it),

*   they can keep working while their flag is raised, and

*   the instructor can quickly see from the front of the room what state
    the class is in.

## A Third Status Flag

Give each learner a sticky note of a third color, e.g., blue.  When
their brain is full or they think it's time for a break, they put it
up on their laptop.  The instructor can then see when it's time to
take a breather.  (Learners are usually reluctant at first to put
these up, but get used to the idea after a couple of breaks.)

## Distributing Attention

Sticky notes can be used to ensure that the instructor's attention is
fairly distributed.  Have each learner write their name on a sticky
note and put it on their laptop.  Each time the instructor calls on
them or answers one of their questions, their sticky note comes down.
Once all the sticky notes are down, everyone puts theirs up again.

This technique makes it easy for the instructor to see who they
haven't spoken with recently, which in turn helps them avoid the
unconscious trap of only interacting with the most extroverted of
their learners.  It also shows learners that attention is being
distributed fairly, so that when they are called on, they won't feel
like they're being singled out.

## Promissory Notes

Whenever a learner asks a question that the instructor doesn't know
how to answer, or doesn't want to answer right away because it would
derail the lesson, the instructor should make themselves a quick note
and put it on the wall near them.  When the learners are working on an
exercise or taking a break, the instructor can choose one or more of
these promissory notes and figure out what to say or how to say it.
This helps the instructor keep track of questions that might otherwise
be forgotten, and signals to learners that their questions will
actually be answered.  (It also gives the instructor an opening to
decide which questions to answer and in how much detail.)

## Fair Air Time

Some people are so used to the sound of their own voice that they will
insist on talking half the time no matter how many other people are in
the room. One way to combat this is to give everyone three sticky
notes at the start of the meeting.  Every time they speak, they have
to take down one sticky note.  When they're out of notes, they aren't
allowed to speak until everyone has used at least one, at which point
everyone gets all of their sticky notes back.  This ensures that
nobody talks more than three times as often as the quietest person in
the meeting, and completely changes the dynamics of most groups:
people who have given up trying to be heard because they always get
trampled suddenly have space to contribute, and the overly-frequent
speakers quickly realize just how unfair they have been.

## Minute Cards

Before each break, have learners take a minute to write one positive
thing about the most recent session on the green sticky note (e.g.,
one thing they've learned that they think will be useful), and one
thing they found too fast, too slow, confusing, or irrelevant on the
red one. While they are enjoying their coffee or lunch, instructors
can review and cluster these to find patterns. It only takes a few
minutes to see what learners are enjoying, what they still find
confusing, what problems they're having, and what questions are still
unanswered.

## Peer Instruction

Learners can use sticky notes of different colors to signal their
answers to multiple-choice questions when peer instruction is being
used:

1.  The instructor give a brief introduction to the topic, then
    presents learners with a multiple-choice question (MCQ) designed
    to probe their misconceptions.

2.  The learners vote on their answers to the MCQ by raising a sticky
    note of the appropriate color.  (Alternatively, sticky notes of
    one color can be marked with large symbols, such as letters or
    numbers.)
    *   If the students all have the right answer, move on.
    *   If they all have the same wrong answer, address that specific
        misconception.
    *   If they have a mix of right and wrong answers, give them
        several minutes to discuss those answers with one another in
        small groups (typically 2-4 students) and then reconvene and
        vote again.

Group discussion significantly improves learners' understanding
because it forces them to externalize their thinking, which can be
enough to call out gaps in reasoning. Re-polling the class then lets
the instructor know if they can move on, or if further explanation is
necessary.

---

<div align="center">
Copyright Â© 2018 the authors.
</div>
